doc3	1	Domestic violence evidently endangers health.
doc3	2	Since physicians are seen as primary contact persons by victims of violence it is necessary to understand their perception of their role.
doc3	3	1346 of all physicians and dentists registered in 2015 with the Saxony Board of Physicians filled in a questionnaire on contact with victims, knowledge on support structures and willingness to take part on specific medical education.
doc3	4	Frequency of contact was estimated to be low, while readiness to approach patients in case of suspicion was high.
doc3	5	There was uncertainty about where to refer, as well as a limited level of awareness of existing support structures.
doc3	6	Most indicated a high request in further education.
doc3	7	In conclusion, motivation and readiness contrast with uncertainty and lack of awareness.
doc3	8	Education focusing on key players and major network interfaces should endorse physicians in their significant role within the care and prevention system of violence.
doc5	1	Epistaxis is a disease well known to general practitioners and ENT specialists in the outpatient sector as well as in hospitals.
doc5	2	The aim of this study was to analyze data of patients that were treated as inpatients at the ENT university hospital Freiburg between 2014-2018.
doc5	3	This retrospective study analyzes data of admitted patients with epistaxis regarding age, medication, bleeding site, underlying health conditions, radiological imaging and treatment.
doc5	4	Risk factors for longer inpatient length of stay and readmission were identified.
doc5	5	Median length of stay was 3.5 days.
doc5	6	55 % of the patients suffered from posterior epistaxis.
doc5	7	72.3 % of patients were treated with anticoagulants at the time of admission.
doc5	8	The most prevalent medical conditions were hypertension (66 %) and arrhythmia due to atrial fibrillation (36.1 %).
doc5	9	63.5 % of the patients were treated by nasal packing.
doc5	10	97 patients (14.6 %) had to be treated surgically.
doc5	11	Surgical treatment, transfusion, posterior epistaxis and anticoagulant treatment were risk factors for longer length of inpatient stay.
doc5	12	Preexisting hypertension, posterior bleeding and single anticoagulant treatment increased the risk of readmission.
doc5	13	Determination and consideration of risk factors allow identification of patients at risk of longer inpatient length of stay and readmission.
doc5	14	Adequate management accounting for risk profiles of patients could help reduce morbidity.
doc6	1	Axial spondylarthritis in adulthood (SpAA) is frequently initially manifested as a sacroiliitis, whereas this not true for enthesitis-related arthritis (EAA), which begins in childhood and adolescence.
doc6	2	Classically, EAA begins with peripheral arthritis and only a part transitions into a juvenile SpA (jSpA) or SpAA.
doc6	3	The criteria used for classification of SpAA and EAA are currently being validated and revised.
doc6	4	For the first time imaging is included for EAA.
doc6	5	For both diseases nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) are initially used therapeutically, followed by biologicals or synthetic targeted disease-modifying drugs in refractory courses.
doc6	6	Steroids should be avoided in long-term treatment.
doc6	7	For optimal transition and further care in adulthood, a close cooperation between internistic and pediatric rheumatologists is necessary.
doc8	1	Many cases of Clostridium perfringens sepsis prove to be fatal.
doc8	2	We present a case of C. perfringens sepsis with a liver abscess as the focus of infection, which was successfully treated by an interdisciplinary intensive medical care management.
doc8	3	The sepsis with this rare pathogen was favored by the presence of a bilioenteric anastomosis and immunosuppressive treatment of a pre-existing Crohn's disease.
doc8	4	Antibiotic treatment with clindamycin and penicillin G was initiated and the abscess was drained.
doc8	5	Hemodialysis with high cut-off filters was started because of acute kidney failure in the Acute Kidney Injury Network (AKIN) stage III, hemolysis and rhabdomyolysis.
doc8	6	Therapeutic plasma exchange was performed due to sepsis and acute liver failure.
doc10	1	Surgical interventions should ideally treat an existing disease curatively and achieve this with a low complication rate and minimal trauma.
doc10	2	In this sense, laparoscopic cholecystectomy has become established as the recognized standard for the treatment of cholecystolithiasis.
doc10	3	Newer procedures, such as single-port surgery or natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) have recently emerged to reduce the already low interventional trauma even further and to provide a better cosmetic outcome.
doc10	4	With all new methods the main aim is the reduction of the transabdominal access points.
doc10	5	Based on published results and diagnosis-related groups (DRG) data, this article examines whether this goal has been achieved, also with respect to the overall quality of treatment and the complication rates.
doc10	6	In this context and in addition to the already mentioned approaches, robotic cholecystectomy and the reduced port approach are also considered.
doc13	1	In addition to medical therapy studies and translational basic projects, surgically oriented studies are also regularly presented at the ASCO Annual Meeting.
doc13	2	At the virtual conference in 2021, an US group presented a well-designed study on the de-escalation of adjuvant therapy after transoral robotic surgery of HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer.
doc13	3	Furthermore, the results of an Italian group on induction therapy for resectable sinunasal carcinomas were presented.
doc13	4	An ongoing multicenter study on the surgical treatment of early-stage oral cavity cancer will investigate the impact of sentinel lymph node biopsy compared to elective neck dissection.
doc13	5	In addition to these presentations, the following review article summarizes other studies in which surgical therapy was part of the investigational workflow.
doc14	1	Chronic rhinosinusitis with (CRwNP) or without (CRsNP) nasal polyps can have a great impact on quality of life.
doc14	2	Typical symptoms include nasal obstruction, olfactory dysfunction, nasal discharge, and facial pain or pressure.
doc14	3	Diagnostic gold standard is nasal endoscopy followed by CT scan of the paranasal sinuses.
doc14	4	Besides first-line treatment with topical or systemically applied glucocorticoids, nasal rinsing, and surgical therapy, monoclonal antibodies have been approved in Germany since 2019.
doc15	1	Integrated care according to the Hamburg model combines therapeutic assertive community treatment (TACT) with initiatives for early detection and early treatment of schizophrenia and affective psychoses.
doc15	2	The aim of this study was to identify the clinical characteristics of adolescents in comparison to adult patients and to derive knowledge for transition-specific treatment approaches.
doc15	3	Sociodemographic and clinical variables as well as treatment performance and clinical outcome were investigated over a period of 12 months in 167 patients with psychoses (16-25 years, n = 88; and >25 years, n = 79).
doc15	4	Patients with psychosis in adolescence had significantly more outpatient treatment contacts (3.5/week vs. 1.6/week; p < 0.001), while adults were hospitalized for twice as long (10 days vs. 21 days; p = 0.003).
doc15	5	The duration of untreated psychoses was significantly shorter in the adolescent group than in adults (122 weeks vs. 208 weeks; p = 0.002).
doc15	6	The proportion of comorbid mental disorders was significantly higher in the adolescent group (87% vs. 63%; p < 0.001).
doc15	7	In addition, the adolescence patients already showed greater impairment of daily functions and a higher severity of illness at the start of treatment.
doc15	8	The treatment of psychoses in adolescence was characterized by a particularly high need for flexibility across all sectors and support systems, taking comorbid problem areas into account.
doc15	9	Care models for adolescents and young adults with psychoses should therefore combine treatment approaches for severely ill patients with transition psychiatric interventions to avoid breaks in care and to meet the complex requirements of young patients with severe mental illnesses.
doc16	1	Intensive care unit-acquired weakness (ICU-AW) is one of the most frequent causes of neuromuscular dysfunction in intensive care medicine.
doc16	2	To date no evidence-based recommendations exist for the diagnostics, monitoring or further intensive care treatment.
doc16	3	To evaluate the current clinical practice of diagnostics, monitoring and treatment strategies of ICU-AW on intensive care units in Germany.
doc16	4	We conducted an online survey with a self-designed questionnaire and invited 448 members of the Scientific Working Group for Intensive Care Medicine (WAKI) and the Scientific Working Group for Neuroanesthesia (WAKNA) to participate.
doc16	5	A total of 68/448 (15.2%) questionnaires were analyzed.
doc16	6	Of the participants 13.4% (9/67) stated that a structured diagnostic approach for the detection of ICU-AW is applied in their units.
doc16	7	The clinical examination was the preferred method for screening (60/68; 88.2%) and follow-up (57/65; 87.7%).
doc16	8	Scores, such as the Medical Research Council sum score (MRC-SS) seem to be less important for the screening (7/68; 10.3%) and follow-up assessment (7/65; 10.8%).
doc16	9	Mobilization with physiotherapy (45/68; 66.2%) is the most common strategy applied to treat ICU-AW.
doc16	10	A lack of physiotherapists (64/68; 94.1%) and intensive care nurses (57/68; 83.8%) are the main deficits identified in the care of patients with ICU-AW.
doc16	11	The majority of the study participants (62/68; 91.2%) would welcome evidence-based guidelines for diagnostics, monitoring and treatment approaches in ICU-AW.
doc16	12	To date comprehensive recommendations for diagnostics, monitoring, prevention and treatment of ICU-AW are still lacking in German intensive care units.
doc16	13	The introduction of new diagnostic approaches could help to detect ICU-AW and therefore to initiate earlier preventive and treatment approaches.
doc17	1	Autologous tissue reconstruction for defect coverage of lower extremity wounds describes a broad interdisciplinary spectrum of conservative, surgical and interventional treatment options.
doc17	2	The goals of reconstruction are a resilient and function-preserving but also esthetically acceptable wound closure, which should enable rehabilitation and the return to participation in social and working life for those affected.
doc17	3	Depending on the wound conditions as well as on potentially occurring concomitant injuries and comorbidities, the timing and method of defect coverage is selected in an individualized approach for each patient.
doc17	4	It is essential that the plastic surgeon is involved as early as possible in the preparation of a treatment plan and can then select the most appropriate and least invasive reconstructive procedure from the armamentarium, depending on the localization and etiology of the soft tissue defect.
doc17	5	These vary from secondary wound closure to skin grafts up to local and free flaps.
doc20	1	Sonography is the most common imaging modality in childhood and adolescence.
doc20	2	The rapid availability, absence of X-rays, bedside applicability, e. g., in intensive care units, the lack of need for sedation, and last but not least the very good ultrasound conditions in the vast majority of cases are the main advantages of sonography.
doc20	3	Due to the spectrum of patients, from premature infants to adolescents, a great variety of questions arise for the examiner.
doc20	4	This requires knowledge of the various disease patterns in the different age groups.
doc20	5	Proper handling of the young patients as well as their parents is essential in order to make the examination conditions as optimal as possible.
doc20	6	Due to the smaller body size compared to adults, sonographic examinations of the abdomen and thorax in children and adolescents are usually possible with very good image quality.
doc20	7	In the majority of cases, a definitive diagnosis is made by sonography without additional cross-sectional imaging, which is more common in adults.
doc20	8	Due to the acoustic windows provided by the still open fontanelles, excellent image quality of the central nervous system is usually possible in the first year of life.
doc20	9	In most cases, complex MRI examinations are not necessary.
doc20	10	Due to the partly still missing ossification of the bony structures, further acoustic windows are available, which allow an examination of, e. g., the spinal canal.
doc20	11	Ultrasound also plays a major role in the examination of soft tissues and the musculoskeletal system in childhood and adolescence, not only in hip ultrasound.
doc20	12	The aim of this article is to show this very broad spectrum for colleagues working predominantly in adult radiology, to highlight some representative examples and to present the respective clinical features in childhood and adolescence.
doc20	13	KEY POINTS::   · Ultrasound is the most important initial imaging modality in children and adolescents.. · Often, no further cross-sectional imaging is necessary.. · The most important area of application is the abdomen and pelvis.. · Furthermore, there are additional special applications such as CNS in neonates and infants, thorax, musculoskeletal system.. CITATION FORMAT: · Schaal MC, Moritz JD, Mentzel H et al. Sonography in Childhood and Adolescence for General Radiologists - More Possibilities Than Expected.... Fortschr Röntgenstr 2022; 194: 521 - 531.
doc23	1	Intraorbital masses represent a condition that is frequently threatening for the visual system.
doc23	2	A rigorous differential diagnosis is essential to promptly initiate appropriate therapy and optimize prognosis.
doc23	3	Narrative review of current literature and expert recommendations.
doc23	4	For further illustration we describe the case of a 71-year-old male admitted to our department three months after sinus surgery.
doc23	5	Postoperative intraorbital hematoma of the right orbit had been treated conservatively with antibiotics/corticosteroids, leading to a near-complete unilateral visual loss.
doc23	6	The immediate surgical intervention aimed at decompression of the orbit and the optical nerve.
doc23	7	Due to the delay, the intervention could not prevent formation of a lipogranuloma.
doc23	8	Inflammatory phases associated with the lipogranuloma are successfully managed by conservative treatment based on multidisciplinary recommendations.
doc23	9	In the case reported, delay of surgical therapy acted as a cause of intraorbital lipogranuloma formation.
doc23	10	Literature supports our recommendation of immediate surgical intervention in case of acute retrobulbar hematoma.
doc23	11	Besides acute conditions, intraorbital masses can be a sign of systemic disease.
doc23	12	In every case, a multidisciplinary therapeutic approach is required for adequate management.
doc23	13	Intraorbital masses can occur as a complication of trauma or e.g. sinus surgery.
doc23	14	On the other hand they can be a sign of systemic disease.
doc23	15	Timely diagnosis and treatment prevents from visual loss.
doc23	16	That is why rigorous differential diagnosis is essential for every discipline managing intraorbital lesions.
doc25	1	The gold standard in operative treatment of end-stage ankle osteoarthritis remains controversial even now.
doc25	2	Endoprosthetic treatment, which has undergone significant improvements in recent years competes with arthrodesis, which can achieve excellent results particularly in the arthroscopically assisted technique.
doc25	3	Both procedures offer specific advantages and disadvantages so that the decision about indications for treatment should always be made individually, taking specific needs and the individual constellation of findings of the patient into consideration.
doc9	1	The second part of 'Anesthetic and Perioperative Management in Carotid Endarterectomy (CEA)' reviews the apparative/diagnostic and clinical techniques regarding neurological monitoring and perioperative complications.
doc9	2	In particular, advantages and disadvantages concerning different methods of neurological assessment will be presented.
doc9	3	Perioperative complications and their management will be discussed.
doc29	1	This manuscript aims to provide an overview of the etiology and diagnosis of olfactory and gustatory disorders.
doc29	2	Not only are they common with about 5% of the population affected, but olfactory and gustatory disorders have recently gained attention in light of the rising SARS-CoV‑2 pandemic: sudden loss of smell and/or taste is regarded as one of the cardinal symptoms.
doc29	3	Furthermore, in the early diagnostics of neurodegenerative diseases, olfactory disorders are of great importance.
doc29	4	Patients with olfactory dysfunction often show signs of depression.
doc29	5	The impact of olfactory/gustatory disorders is thus considerable, but therapeutic options are unfortunately still limited.
doc29	6	Following a description of the etiology, the diagnostic and therapeutic options are discussed on the basis of current literature.
doc29	7	Potential future treatments are also addressed, e.g. autologous mucosal grafts or olfactory implants.
doc1	1	Patient centered radiology represents a crucial aspect for modern sustainable radiology.
doc1	2	The definition of patient-centered consists of a focus on patients' individual values and wishes with a respectful integration in medical decisions.
doc1	3	In this narrative review we try to give a practical introduction into this complex topic with the extension to a person-centered radiology, which additionally encompasses values and wishes of radiological and other medical colleagues.
doc1	4	Medline search between 2010 and 2021 using 'patient-centered radiology' with additional subjective selection of articles for this narrative review.
doc1	5	Regarding patients' experiences the main literature focus were patients' fears of examinations (movement restrictions, uncertainty).
doc1	6	Most patients would prefer a direct communication with the radiologist after the examination.
doc1	7	Regarding interdisciplinary communication the radiological expertise and quality is highly appreciated; however, there was a general wish for more structured- or itemized reporting.
doc1	8	Concerning working conditions radiologists were satisfied despite high psychosocial working pressure.
doc1	9	Most of the literature on this topic consists of surveys evaluating the current state.
doc1	10	Studies on interventions such as improved information before examinations or patient-readable reports are still scarce.
doc1	11	There is a dilemma between an increasing radiological workload and the simultaneous wish for more patient-centered approaches such as direct radiologist-patient communications in the daily routine.
doc1	12	Still on our way to a more value-based radiology we have to focus on patient communications and a patient-centered medicine.
doc1	13	· Patient centered radiology has a focus on the integration of patients' individual values and wishes in their decisions.. · Radiologists are clinicians, who an additional diagnostic and therapeutic surplus for patients and referring physicians.. · The recent literature on this topic consists basically on the evaluation of the current status.. · Most patients prefer a direct communication with the radiologist.. · To gain a 'value based' radiology we to focus on an optimized communication with patients and referring physicians.. · Schreyer AG, Schneider K, Dendl LM et al. Patient Centered Radiology - An Introduction in Form of a Narrative Review.
doc1	14	Fortschr Röntgenstr 2022; DOI: 10.1055/a-1735-3552.
doc31	1	In sophisticated surgical procedures, e. g. colectomy, cardiac surgery, arterial reconstruction and liver resection, the individual surgeon is a major influence on postoperative morbidity.
doc31	2	For the everyday procedure of cholecystectomy, clear data on the morbidity related to the individual surgeon are lacking.
doc31	3	To assess the individual impact on the outcome of cholecystectomy in a cohort of experienced surgeons.
doc31	4	The analysis covered n = 710 consecutive patients who had received cholecystecomy between January 2014 and December 2018 - performed by experienced surgeons (> n = 300 cholecystectomies before entry in the study and > 5 years after specialty registration).
doc31	5	In a univariate analysis, the influence of patient characteristics, laboratory findings and surgical data on postoperative morbidity were investigated.
doc31	6	Variables with statistical significance were entered into a multivariate logistic regression.
doc31	7	Mortality was 5/710 (0.7%), and morbidity was 58/710 (8.2%), including 37/710 patients with surgical morbidity and 21/710 patients with non-surgical morbidity.
doc31	8	In a multivariable analysis the independent risk factors for overall morbidity were creatinine level (OR 1.29, CI 1.01-1.648, p = 0.042), GOT (OR 1.005, CI 1-1.01, p = 0.03), open/conversion surgery (OR 4.134, CI 1.587-10.768, p = 0.004) and the individual surgeon (OR up to 40.675, p = 0.001).
doc31	9	In the analysis of surgical complications, open/conversion surgery (OR 8.104, CI 3.03-21.68, p < 0.001) and the individual surgeon (OR up to 79.69, p = 0.005) remained of significant influence.
doc31	10	The individual surgeon is of major influence on the outcome after an everyday procedure such as cholecystectomy in a group of experienced surgeons with specialty registration.
doc31	11	The individual outcome of each surgeon should be measured as a basis of targeted improvement programs.
doc24	1	Based on the lump sum system which is calculated by the InEK (Institut für das Entgeltsystem im Krankenhaus), it is possible to compare one hospital's own performance data with all hospitals in Germany billing according to the Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG).
doc24	2	The aim of this article is to investigate exceeding or undercutting of computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in comparison to the calculations made by the InEK to reveal potential for improvement.
doc24	3	InEK calculation data for 2021 were used to form comparative ratios for CT and MRI diagnostics at the DRG level.
doc24	4	Data from a university hospital was compared at the hospital, departments, DRG and main diagnosis levels.
doc24	5	At the hospital level, there were 1025 more MRIs and 371 more CTs compared to InEK.
doc24	6	Analysis by department showed, e.g., in neurology, 489 more MRIs and 620 fewer CTs.
doc24	7	The benchmark of the DRGs showed in particular that DRG B70B was the driver of deviations in both diagnostic modalities (MRI [Formula: see text] CT [Formula: see text]).
doc24	8	The identified deviations can be further analysed at the main diagnosis level.
doc24	9	Awareness of above-average use of cross-sectional imaging diagnostics can provide impetus for further development of clinical pathways of a hospital.
doc24	10	The methodology of the InEK benchmark is applicable to every hospital and is able to identify processes with potential for improvement.
doc24	11	The review of influencing factors as well as the evaluation by clinicians and economists are prerequisite for acceptance and success of the measures generated from the benchmark.
doc32	1	Due to the changing age structure of the Western population, an increase in geriatric patients in endoprosthetic care of hip and knee joints is to be expected in the future.
doc32	2	The age-related frailty and the existing comorbidities pose great challenges for the entire treatment team.
doc32	3	In the preoperative phase, geriatric patients should be identified as such and adjustable risk factors should be addressed prior to surgery.
doc32	4	The primary goals of treatment are to minimize trauma from anesthesia and endoprosthetic surgery to ensure immediate postoperative mobilization of patients.
doc32	5	At the same time, any perioperative complications, especially intensive care treatments, should be prevented.
doc32	6	This is achieved excellently with algorithms that are well known from fast-track surgery.
doc33	1	Endogenous Cushing's syndrome is a rare endocrine disorder that is fatal if left untreated.
doc33	2	It can be distinguished into adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-dependent (central and ectopic Cushing's syndrome) and ACTH-independent subtypes (unilateral or bilateral adrenal adenomas).
doc33	3	The clinical presentation of patients includes typical stigmata of cortisol excess with physical symptoms of catabolic metabolism (myopathy, striae, parchment skin, osteoporosis) and components of metabolic syndrome (diabetes mellitus, obesity, arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolemia).
doc33	4	Biochemical diagnosis is performed in three steps: 1.
doc33	5	Confirmation of the diagnosis by 1‑mg dexamethasone suppression test, 24‑h urine free cortisol, and measurement of late-night salivary cortisol.
doc33	6	2.
doc33	7	Differentiation of ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome from ACTH-independent adrenal Cushing's syndrome by measurement of plasma ACTH.
doc33	8	3.
doc33	9	Further subtyping by corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) test, inferior petrosal sinus sampling, and imaging modalities.
doc33	10	Therapeutic decisions are made on an interdisciplinary basis.
doc33	11	First-line therapy for all subtypes is surgery when possible; additional options for all forms include drug therapy and bilateral adrenalectomy.
doc33	12	Despite adequate treatment, Cushing's syndrome is associated with increased long-term morbidity and mortality.
doc33	13	Interdisciplinary and multimodal therapy management is necessary in the long term to positively influence mortality and reduced quality of life.
doc30	1	We present a case of walnut allergy in a 24-year-old man.
doc30	2	The allergy work up revealed sensitization to walnut including a positive skin prick test and a high value of walnut-specific IgEs.
doc30	3	The patient showed an anaphylactic reaction during the double blind placebo-controlled food challenge, to a cumulative dose of 3.723 g of walnut protein.
doc30	4	The oral food challenge resulted in counseling regarding strict walnut avoidance and optimization of the emergency management.
doc30	5	At follow-up the patient reported that having adhered to the recommended dietary measures resulted in no further allergic reactions.
doc36	1	If one could talk about a superstar in abdominal surgery, the appendix would definitely be qualified for this name.
doc36	2	Much has already been said about the vermiform appendix.
doc36	3	The potential to talk about the appendix is, however, by no means exhausted.
doc36	4	In this article already published articles are selected and subsumed.
doc36	5	Less known details on the discovery and research of the appendix as well as the diagnostics of appendicitis and establishment of appendectomy are also included.
doc37	1	The COVID-19 pandemic has greatly changed the utilization of ambulatory medical care.
doc37	2	Studies indicate that this also includes a decrease in pediatric prevention services.
doc37	3	The aim of the study was to determine how the utilization of pediatric prevention services, in particular screening examinations and immunizations, developed over the course of the first pandemic wave until the end of September 2020 compared with the years 2015 to 2019.
doc37	4	A data analysis based on nationwide statutory medical claims data from the first quarter of 2015 to the third quarter of 2020 was conducted.
doc37	5	All treatments of patients aged 0 to 17 years were included and the quarterly case numbers compared on an annual basis.
doc37	6	By considering trends and seasonality, preventive and curative treatment cases were modelled as a time series and compared to their expected values.
doc37	7	No decreases in the quarterly numbers of screening examinations or immunizations were observed in 2020.
doc37	8	In contrast, the number of curative pediatric cases decreased significantly in the second and third quarters of 2020 compared with the same periods of the previous years.
doc37	9	Since there was no drop in the number of screening examinations, it should be assumed that the health problems addressed in this framework are detected in a timely manner despite the COVID-19 pandemic.
doc37	10	However, since screenings do not cover all age groups, further investigation should be conducted to determine the health consequences of the observed decrease in curative cases.
doc38	1	Exercise prescription is a central tenet of physiotherapy.
doc38	2	One of the numerous benefits of exercise is its influence on endogenous pain modulation.
doc38	3	Exercise-induced hypoalgesia (EIH) refers to a short-term change in pain sensitivity following an acute bout of exercise.
doc38	4	Interest in this phenomenon has grown considerably with over 150 articles published, including four systematic reviews in 2020 alone.
doc38	5	This narrative review provides an overview of EIH including a definition and summary of the underlying mechanisms and mediating factors.
doc38	6	Recent systematic reviews assessing EIH in people with and without musculoskeletal complaints were evaluated using AMSTAR2.
doc38	7	Review findings confirm the presence of EIH.
doc38	8	For asymptomatic people, confidence in the evidence was low to very low due to high heterogeneity of included studies, risk of bias, and study eligibility.
doc38	9	For people with pain, there is very low confidence, at best, that subgroups or isometric exercise show altered EIH.
doc38	10	Despite the growing body of evidence, challenges within the available evidence due to its complex nature are highlighted.
doc38	11	Recommendations regarding outcome measures and exercise parameters are required, and further understanding of reliability and validity of EIH is needed.
doc38	12	There is a demand to further elucidate these parameters and contextual factors to advance our understanding of EIH.
doc38	13	Additional clinical research, especially in patient populations, is required to then provide implications for rehabilitation.
doc39	1	Carotid endarterectomy is a standard procedure in therapy and prevention of ischemic stroke in particular patients.
doc39	2	To ensure an optimal anesthetic management, fundamental knowledge of anatomy, pathophysiology and surgical technique is essential.
doc39	3	General anesthesia may be considered as well as regional anesthesia in affected patients.
doc39	4	This article reviews the cause of extracranial carotid artery stenosis, its surgical and anesthetic treatment as well as perioperative characteristics.
doc18	1	Femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FAIS) is a relevant cause of groin pain in adolescents.
doc18	2	Athletes are particularly affected.
doc18	3	The article shall provide an evidence-based background for FAIS counseling and therapy in adolescents.
doc18	4	On the basis of the current literature, an overview of the prevalence and pathogenesis, evaluation and diagnostics, as well as the therapeutic recommendations for FAIS in adolescents was compiled.
doc18	5	FAIS in adolescents primarily affects physically active patients.
doc18	6	Certain sports favor the development of FAIS.
doc18	7	Cam impingement, pincer impingement, and combined FAIS are the most common entities in this age group.
doc18	8	Cam morphology occurs shortly before closure of the proximal femoral growth plate.
doc18	9	In cam impingement, the slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) must be distinguished from the primary cam morphology.
doc18	10	SCFE requires rapid surgical treatment with stabilization of the epiphysis, while primary cam impingement can be analyzed electively, and conservative treatment is first recommended.
doc18	11	Damage to the labrum and cartilage is regularly observed.
doc18	12	A systematic radiological evaluation using X‑rays and MRI is mandatory in order to develop an adequate treatment plan.
doc18	13	In adolescent patients with FAIS, a conservative attempt at therapy should always be made; if this is unsuccessful, surgical repair with hip arthroscopy is indicated.
doc18	14	The postoperative results are very good in adolescents, with a rapid improvement in symptoms, few complications, and a high return-to-sport rate.
doc41	1	Lymphomas occur very frequently in the periocular region, predominantly in adulthood.
doc41	2	This malignant tumor shows a heterogeneous clinical pattern.
doc41	3	The aim of this article is to provide an overview of the symptoms, diagnostic procedures and treatment options for lymphomas of the periocular region.
doc41	4	The symptoms of periocular lymphomas are mostly nonspecific.
doc41	5	The growth is usually painless and slowly progressive.
doc41	6	A salmon-colored swelling is typical for conjunctival lymphoma.
doc41	7	The basis of a precise diagnostic process is a detailed anamnesis.
doc41	8	Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is considered the gold standard for imaging of lymphoproliferative lesions.
doc41	9	A histopathological examination should be carried out to confirm the exact diagnosis.
doc41	10	Subsequently, staging should be performed as periocular lymphomas can be the manifestation of a systemic involvement.
doc41	11	The treatment procedure should be coordinated by an interdisciplinary tumor board.
doc41	12	The treatment of periocular lymphomas can include percutaneous stereotactic irradiation as well as chemotherapeutic or new immunotherapeutic strategies.
doc42	1	Worldwide, the hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses (HBV, HCV) are the most relevant causative viral agents of a chronic hepatitis (inflammation of the liver).
doc42	2	At present, more than 250 million people suffer from a chronic HBV infection globally, resulting in 0.8 million deaths per year.
doc42	3	A chronic HCV infection accounts for about 70 million cases worldwide, leading to a death toll of about 1 million per year.
doc42	4	An approved vaccine is only available against an HBV infection.
doc42	5	Both HBV and HCV infections result in a highly increased risk of developing liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).This review aims to describe mechanisms of the HBV- and HCV-associated pathogenesis.
doc42	6	The focus is on the interplay between a chronic infection with intracellular signaling transduction, metabolic pathways with an emphasis on lipid metabolism, the establishment of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis during a chronic infection, and the mechanisms of the onset of a virally induced HCC.Despite there being great advances in the characterization of viral life cycles and the development of robust antiviral strategies, significant hurdles persist: gaining a better understanding of the mechanisms that drive virus-associated pathogenesis as well as increasing insights regarding different viral genotypes having impacts on alternate pathogeneses.
doc12	1	Sarcopenia - the age-associated loss of muscle function and muscle mass - is of utmost importance for older patients with degenerative and traumatic diseases of the musculoskeletal system, as it closely linked to the loss of independence and quality of life in higher age.
doc12	2	Impairments of mobility that are highly present in this patient group accelerate the age-associated decline of muscle function and muscle mass.
doc12	3	The diagnosis of sarcopenia relies primarily on tests of strength and function like handgrip, chair-rise test and gait speed.
doc12	4	The measurement of muscle mass is desirable, but not mandatory.
doc12	5	In the near future the prevention and treatment of sarcopenia has to become part of the clinical routine for older orthopedic patients.
doc12	6	Specific modifications of physical exercise like resistance training and optimal nutrition with regard to protein intake (1.0-1.2 g/kg bodyweight per day) in combination with vitamin D supplementation are key components of sarcopenia prevention and therapy.
doc43	1	Segmental and somatic dysfunction in the thoracic section can lead to various clinical symptoms.
doc43	2	It is necessary to distinguish three variants.
doc43	3	1. Local pain Potentially life-threatening differential diagnoses have to be considered, and when in doubt chest pain emergency diagnostics must be initiated.
doc43	4	2. Vertebro-visceral reflex The main segmental roots of the sympathetic trunk are in thoracic segments, this results in a high-grade linking to thoracic and abdominal organs. 'Non-specific' thoracic and abdominal symptoms can be caused by segmental and somatic dysfunction in thoracic segments.
doc43	5	3. Viscero-vertebral reflex Visceral nociception is transmitted via vegetative fibers to thoracic segments.
doc43	6	Here, painful dysfunction can occur, which might be the first sign of severe structural disease like neoplasia or ulcer in thoracic or abdominal organs.
doc43	7	Differential diagnostics is challenging, and manual medicine can contribute substantially.
doc43	8	Biomechanical and neurophysiologic particularities must be known.
doc44	1	In contrast to official mental health policy, psychiatric clinics accomodate long-term patients.
doc44	2	To quantify this problem.
doc44	3	Cross-sectional assessment of the number of long-term patients in psychiatric clinics in Lower Saxony. 13 clinics of adult psychiatry report 60 long-term patients and one clinic for child and adolescent psychiatry reports 2 patients.
doc44	4	Median duration of stay 9.5, maximum 215 months.
doc44	5	Reasons for long-term hospitalisation include patients' challenging behaviour and, consequently, difficulties to find an accommodating long-term facility.
doc44	6	Housing willing to accommodate mentally ill persons with challenging behaviour is lacking, as well as local responsibility for the placement of these persons.
doc44	7	Systematic transfer management from hospital to residential homes does not exist.
doc26	1	Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a hereditary hemoglobinopathy, which leads to microcirculatory disturbances of various organ systems through recurrent vaso-occlusive episodes, with a possibly fatal outcome.
doc26	2	Sickle cell retinopathy (SCR) is the best described ocular manifestation of SCD.
doc26	3	Irrespective of the presence of peripheral SCR, sickle cell maculopathy (SCM) can occur early in the course of the disease.
doc26	4	Review of the international and German literature on ocular involvement in SCD with a focus on SCR and SCM and an overview of current systemic therapeutic approaches in SCD on the occasion of the presentation of two patients with HbSS SCD.
doc26	5	In contrast to SCR, SCM with temporal thinning of the inner retinal layers has only been increasingly described in the literature in the last 5 years, with the advent of SD-OCT and OCTA.
doc26	6	Irrespective of the presence of SCR, as many as about half of the patients may develop SCM early in the course of the disease.
doc26	7	As a result of progress in systemic therapeutic options and due to migration, the clinical picture will occur more often also in Germany.
doc26	8	By knowing about this complication of SCD an early diagnosis can be made and unnecessary diagnostics can be avoided.
doc40	1	Health services research is multidisciplinary and involves the use of a plurality of research methods.
doc40	2	Medicine as a discipline serves as an important reference, also in terms of addressing ethics issues in research.
doc40	3	At the same time, however, the highly formalized ethical reviews common in medicine, are controversial within the social sciences, especially among qualitative researchers.
doc40	4	So far, little is known about which research ethics issues arise in qualitative health services research.
doc40	5	In summer 2019, an online survey was conducted among health services researchers on two main topics: a) research ethics issues in qualitative health services research and b) experiences with the ethics review procedures.
doc40	6	The questionnaire contained ten open questions; the responses were analyzed for content.
doc40	7	The first topic (ethical issues) is addressed within this article.
doc40	8	A total of 73 researchers with heterogeneous professional background and an average of more than seven years of work experience in health services research participated in the survey.
doc40	9	The following were reported as central research ethics issues: a) legitimacy and anticipation of ethical challenges in the planning of research, b) field access, consent and burdens during data collection, c) anonymization and data protection in data processing, d) data analysis, e) publication of results and data and f) general topics such as central principles and goals of research as well as the role of researchers.
doc40	10	The main formats for dealing with these issues were exchange and consultation as well as referring to texts and regulations.
doc40	11	On the one hand, the data documents typical central research ethics questions that researchers are confronted with in the context of qualitative health services research; on the other hand, they also point to gaps and less considered topics.
doc40	12	A systematizing ethical reflection could take up these findings in order to develop health services research-specific principles and strategies for handling research ethics issues.
doc28	1	While the availability and variety of digital information on health offers a range of opportunities, they also pose a number of challenges, because the need for digital health literacy (DHL) is increasing along with the growing range of information possibilities.
doc28	2	The aim of this study was to analyze the extent of DHL in the German population, key determinants, and consequences for the use of digital health information resources.
doc28	3	The analysis was based on data from the Second Health Literacy Survey Germany (HLS-GER 2), consisting of a representative sample of n=2,151.
doc28	4	A questionnaire developed as part of the international comparative study HLS<sub>19</sub> was used to measure DHL, its determinants, and the use of digital health information resources.
doc28	5	Bivariate and multivariate analyses were conducted.
doc28	6	Overall, 75.8% of the population had low DHL.
doc28	7	In particular, low literacy skills, older age, a lower level of education and social status were associated with low DHL.
doc28	8	Multivariate analysis also indicated a strong association between DHL and general health literacy (HL).
doc28	9	Low DHL led to lower use of digital health information resources.
doc28	10	The results underscore the importance of promoting DHL in the general population and especially among groups with low DHL.
doc28	11	Efforts in this area should include general HL, as it is closely related to DHL.
doc28	12	Strengthening DHL is also a socially important task in order to increase the still low use of digital health information resources in Germany and, in general, to meet the increasing digitalization of the health care system.
doc19	1	Physicians in Germany are overburdened.
doc19	2	Delegation of tasks to Physician Assistants (PA) is one way of providing relief.
doc19	3	Although PA work in Germany since 2012, few data are available.
doc19	4	We studied advantages and disadvantages from those physicians point of view, who cooperate with PA since years, as well as working conditions, satisfaction and duration of work processes of PA.
doc19	5	Semi-quantitative cross-sectional survey on a course of PA graduates and the physicians they work with since three years.
doc19	6	Retrospective analysis of patients´ waiting time and duration of stay in an emergency department.
doc19	7	Physicians were very satisfied with PA and reported a high degree of relief from workload.
doc19	8	PA were highly satisfied with their job.
doc19	9	Processing time in the emergency department was not longer when a PA was involved in patient care.
doc19	10	Physicians are satisfied with PA as they are relieved from a heavy workload.
doc19	11	More data on effectiveness and efficiency of PA in Germany are needed.
doc27	1	Sleep medicine is a cross-disciplinary subject with high relevance for psychiatry and psychotherapy.
doc27	2	The three most common sleep disorders (insomnia, sleep apnea syndrome and restless legs syndrome) are presented here with practical relevance.
doc27	3	Cognitive behavioral therapy is the treatment of choice for insomnia, whereas symptomatic drug treatment (especially with GABA receptor agonists) should be used with caution.
doc27	4	Sleep-related breathing disorders have a high prevalence of around 24% among psychiatric inpatients in Germany.
doc27	5	Typical symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome should lead to a staged diagnostic process and, if necessary, cardiorespiratory polysomnography.
doc27	6	It is not unusual for restless legs syndrome to be caused by psychopharmacological treatment.
doc27	7	The primary form was usually treated with dopamine or dopamine agonists but due to the risk of augmentation, alternatives should be considered more often.
doc46	1	Interventional sonography describes the step from pure sonographic imaging diagnostics to sonographically controlled treatment that can be connected directly to sonographic imaging diagnostics instead of postponing it over a longer time interval with possibly further (X-ray, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging) diagnostics.
doc46	2	The sonographically controlled interventional measures range from a simple puncture of fluid-filled spaces to infiltration of deeper lying areas, such as the labrum acetabulare, the dorsal knee joint capsule and facet joints up to infiltration of the sciatic nerve.
doc46	3	The safety is guaranteed by adhering to clearly defined hygiene standards as well as by qualified training as part of the 3‑stage model of certification of the surgery section of the German Society of Ultrasound in Medicine (DEGUM).
doc46	4	By using modern sonography devices, structures in the submillimeter range are visible even at close range, so that nowadays even splitting of the annular ligament of the finger has become possible under ultrasound control.
doc35	1	The National Reference Center (NRC) for hepatitis B viruses (HBV) and hepatitis D viruses (HDV) has been located at the Institute of Medical Virology of the Justus Liebig University (JLU) in Giessen, Germany, since its establishment in 2011.
doc35	2	This paper describes the NRC's areas of activity and related experience.
doc35	3	The NRC offers comprehensive consulting services on all diagnostic and clinical aspects of acute and chronic HBV and HDV infections for the Public Health Service (ÖGD), diagnostic laboratories, clinics, research institutes, and physicians in private practice.
doc35	4	Uncertain diagnostic findings can be analyzed and interpreted and epidemiological correlations clarified with the HBV/HDV special diagnostics established at the NRC using state-of-the-art molecular, biochemical, and genetic laboratory tools.
doc35	5	The NRC has access to a strain collection of many well-characterized and cloned HBV/HDV isolates, allowing comparative analysis and evaluation of antiviral resistance mutations and immune escape variants.
doc35	6	Together with its national and international partner institutions, the NRC initiates and supervises, among other things, interlaboratory studies for the diagnosis of HBV resistance and immune escape for the establishment and validation of international World Health Organization (WHO) standards and for the improvement of quantitative HDV genome determination.
doc35	7	The NRC actively participates in current recommendations and guidelines on HBV and HDV and the recommendations of medical societies.
doc35	8	It also highlights current HBV/HDV-relevant aspects with contributions in the form of national and international lectures as well as original articles and comments in national and international journals.
doc4	1	Bile duct injuries during laparoscopic cholecystectomy are rare but serious complications.
doc4	2	Bile duct injuries can be classified based on their location, injury pattern and possible concomitant vascular injury.
doc4	3	Several classifications exist with the Neuhaus classification, which is widely used in Germany, allowing a clinically oriented classification of bile duct injuries.
doc4	4	The diagnostic algorithm is based on whether the injury is diagnosed due to bile leakage or bile duct occlusion and whether there is also a circulatory disturbance of the liver.
doc4	5	The differentiated use of laboratory, image-based, endoscopic and interventional methods enables not only classification but also treatment planning.
doc4	6	About half of all bile duct lesions can be treated by an endoscopic intervention; however, with increasing size of the defect, with complete occlusion of the bile duct or with relevant circulatory disturbances of the liver, the probability for the need of a surgical procedure increases.
doc4	7	Intraoperatively, a distinction must be made between repair by suturing and splinting and reconstruction of the bile duct by patch plasty or hepaticojejunostomy.
doc4	8	Partial liver resection or liver transplantation may be necessary, especially in cases of circulatory disorders.
doc4	9	In addition to appropriate experience, good communication and interdisciplinary cooperation between endoscopy, interventional radiology and surgery are crucial for the success of the treatment.
doc4	10	In this respect, contacting a specialized center for liver and transplantation surgery as soon as possible is advised.
doc22	1	Children or adolescents living in foster or institutional care received so far insufficient consideration in therapy intervention research.
doc22	2	At the same time, they are a high-risk group for developing mental illness.
doc22	3	The aim of this systematic review is to record evidence-based psychotherapeutic interventions of the past 15 years on a national and international level that address children and young people living in foster care and youth welfare institutions and their mental health.
doc22	4	Through a systematic literature research, interventions for the target group described were identified and analyzed about their specificity and evidence.
doc22	5	From 170 publications, ten interventions with sufficient evidence could be included in the present analysis.
doc22	6	The result of the current literature research shows that further specialized psychiatric-psychotherapeutic interventions for children in foster care and youth welfare institutions are necessary.
doc22	7	Regarding the transferability to the German youth welfare and health system, cross-system and interdisciplinary cooperation is needed.
doc22	8	Hereafter further research is required to establish specific and evidence-based intervention approaches.
doc45	1	Cholecystectomies can sometimes be very complex operations, which place high demands on the surgeon.
doc45	2	Are there preoperative and intraoperative procedures available for reducing the risk of intraoperative bile duct injuries during a complex cholecystectomy?
doc45	3	The complexity of the operation should be estimated preoperatively.
doc45	4	Extended diagnostic examinations, preoperative biliary stenting and the performance of the operation by an experienced surgeon may help to reduce the operative risk.
doc45	5	In high-risk patients, postponing the cholecystectomy may be indicated.
doc45	6	The timely intraoperative recognition of the impossibility to perform a regular cholecystectomy is of decisive importance.
doc45	7	In this situation, so-called bail-out procedures, such as fundus-down cholecystectomy or subtotal cholecystectomy are warranted.
doc45	8	Conversion from laparoscopic to open surgery is not always necessary.
doc45	9	Bail-out procedures are useful to reduce the risk of bile duct injuries during complex cholecystectomy and can enable a safe completion of the operation.
doc34	1	The complex kinematics of the saddle joint has been a challenge in the development of trapeziometacarpal prostheses.
doc34	2	The introduction of the dual-mobility design increases the range of motion and limits strains on the cup fixation.
doc34	3	Therefore, rates of loosening and dislocation have been markedly reduced.
doc34	4	Furthermore, several studies showed a similar relief of pain, range of movement and grip strength compared to the results of resection arthroplasty.
doc34	5	The preservation of the length of the first ray as well as the more stable and functional joint can be favourable in younger and active patients.
doc34	6	Further investigation is needed to determine whether or not those higher demands affect long-term survivorship.
doc34	7	The high grade of patient satisfaction, the shorter recovery time and the safe surgical technique motivates considering the implantation of a total endoprosthesis with a dual-mobility cup as an attractive alternative to resection arthroplasty in the operative treatment for trapeziometacarpal osteoarthritis.
doc21	1	The working methods of the Standing Committee on Vaccination (STIKO) and its recommendations are only partially known by medical professionals and the public.
doc21	2	Methodology of the standard operating procedure of the STIKO, annual vaccination recommendations, normal vaccination reaction versus vaccination side effects, instructions for vaccination in case of immunodeficiency, and recommendation for COVID-19 vaccination are presented.
doc21	3	Presentation of the path to a vaccination recommendation, differences between recommendations and instructions for action, key statements on vaccination in immunodeficiency, and summary of the data situation on COVID-19 mRNA vaccination.
doc21	4	The STIKO works purely on an evidence-based basis by systematically evaluating the existing preclinical and clinical studies results for a vaccine using the GRADE method.
doc21	5	Only vaccination complications and vaccination injuries are notifiable.
doc21	6	Immunodeficient patients can receive inactivated vaccines at any time, but generally not live vaccines.
doc21	7	Based on current knowledge, the COVID-19 mRNA vaccination can be described as safe and effective.
doc21	8	The STIKO vaccination recommendations are considered as the medical standard.
doc21	9	The published current instructions for vaccination of immunodeficient patients and the recently published recommendation for COVID-19 vaccination, together with their scientific backgrounds and reasons, represent a valuable basis for medical action in the field of vaccination against infectious diseases.
doc11	1	An intent of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Acts (ACA), also know as Obama Care, was to slow the expenditure growth in the public Medicare-System by shifting the accountability for health care outcomes and costs to the provider.
doc11	2	For this purpose, provider were allowed to form networks, which would then take accountability for a defined population - Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs).
doc11	3	Ten years after the introduction of ACOs, this paper looks at the impact of ACOs both on quality of care and costs of care to assess if ACOs can be a model of care delivery for Germany.
doc11	4	In a mixed-method approach, a rapid review was conducted in Health System Evidence and PubMed.
doc11	5	This was supported with further papers identified using the snowballing-technique.
doc11	6	After screening the abstracts, we included articles containing information on cost- and/or quality impact of US-Medicare-ACOs.
doc11	7	The findings of the rapid review were challenged with 16 ACO-experts and stakeholder in the USA.
doc11	8	In total, we included 60 publications which incorporated 6 reports that were either conducted directly by governmental institutions or ordered by them, along with 3 previous reviews.
doc11	9	Among these, 31 contained information on costs of care, 18 contained information on quality of care and 11 had information on both aspects.
doc11	10	The publications show that ACOs reduced costs of of care.
doc11	11	Cost reductions were achieved compared to historic costs, to populations not cared for in ACOs, and counterfactuals.
doc11	12	Quality of care stayed the same or improved.
doc11	13	ACOs contributed to slowing the cost growth in US Medicare without compromising quality of care.
doc11	14	Thus, a transferal of this model of care to Germany should be considered.
doc11	15	However, various policies have led to ACOs failing to unleash their full potential.
doc11	16	Against this background, and against the background of stark differences between US Medicare and the German health care system, a critical reflection of the necessary policies underlying ACOs-like structures in Germany, needs to be undertaken.
doc48	1	Medical intensive care medicine treats patients with severe, potentially life-threatening diseases covering the complete spectrum of internal medicine.
doc48	2	The qualification in medical intensive care medicine requires a broad spectrum of knowledge and skills in medical intensive care medicine, but also in the general field of internal medicine.
doc48	3	Both sides of the coin must be taken into account, the treatment with life-sustaining strategies of the acute illness of the patient and also the treatment of patient's underlying chronic diseases.
doc48	4	The indispensable foundation of medical intensive care medicine as described in this curriculum includes basic knowledge and skills (level of competence I-III) as well as of behavior and attitudes.
doc48	5	This curriculum is primarily dedicated to the internist in advanced training in medical intensive care medicine.
doc48	6	However, this curriculum also intends to reach trainers in intensive care medicine and also the German physician chambers with their examiners, showing them which knowledge, skills as well as behavior and attitudes should be taught to trainees according to the education criteria of the German Society of Medical Intensive Care and Emergency Medicine (DGIIN).
doc7	1	The German Society for Manual Medicine no longer demands mandatory X‑ray diagnostics prior to high-velocity, low-amplitude manipulation.
doc7	2	Indication is based on the general justification as a result of anamnesis and clinical examination.
doc7	3	With appropriate indications, imaging primarily serves to exclude contraindications.
doc7	4	The use of X‑ray diagnostics to determine the treatment technique or direction is obsolete, especially in infants.
doc7	5	Detection of segmental dysfunction as the therapeutic indication is of scientific interest only.
doc7	6	Other possible objectives of imaging are detection of a non-functional cause of pain or prediction of therapeutic success.
doc7	7	In either case, study results to date contradict general imaging, as there is no significant correlation between detected changes and existing or developing pain.
doc7	8	In particular, the significance of a Modic lesion is still to be regarded as open according to studies to date.
doc49	1	Communicating about delusions is generally considered a challenging task.
doc49	2	Assuming that there are nevertheless a variety of communicative resources competently employed to meet this challenge, the authors present a conversation analytic study of two narrative interviews in which people talk about their experience of delusions.
doc49	3	It is shown that through pauses, breaks, reformulations, negotiations of the so-called common ground and the use of metaphoric speech, they succeed in conveying many aspects of the experience of delusions that cannot simply be described in terms of content.
doc49	4	These examples of communicative strategies can be a resource for others and encourage mental health professionals and users alike to engage in conversations on delusions.
doc47	1	Establishing a diagnosis in cases of fever of unknown origin (FUO) in immunocompromised patients can be difficult.
doc47	2	In 25-35% infectious diseases are the underlying cause.
doc47	3	This article reports the case of a 74-year-old woman with a 5-month history of fever.
doc47	4	Through open biopsy of the femoral shaft and microbiological analysis, a diagnosis of neoehrlichiosis could be established.
doc47	5	After initiation of treatment with doxycycline, the symptoms quickly resolved resulting in a complete recovery.
doc2	1	The proximal humeral fracture is one of the most common fractures in the elderly.
doc2	2	While epidemiological factors have been well studied, the influence of a proximal humeral fracture on morbidity, mortality and associated costs has not yet been adequately analysed.
doc2	3	On a basis of 4.1 million insurance holders of the German public health insurance (GKV), patients with (study population, SP) and without (comparison group, VG) a proximal humeral fracture (pHF) were compared with regard to comorbidity, rehospitalisation, mortality, drug and aid needs as well as number of physician contacts.
doc2	4	Study period was between 2012 and 2016.
doc2	5	6068 patients of the SP met the inclusion and exclusion criteria (age 69.4 ± 14.3 years; male : female = 28.2% : 71.8%).
doc2	6	4781 patients (78.8%) received surgical, 1287 patients (21.2%) conservative treatment of the pHF.
doc2	7	Rehospitalisations and visits to the general practitioner occurred more frequently in the SP vs. VG (p < 0.01).
doc2	8	Contacts with specialists after pHF varied according to specialty, as did newly occurring diseases.
doc2	9	Typical specialities for preventive examinations were significantly less common (gynaecology p < 0.01, pathology p < 0.01, dermatology p < 0.01).
doc2	10	According to pHF, the costs of SP for drugs (2490.76 ± 1395.51 € vs. 2167.86 ± 1314.43 €; p = 0.04), medical therapies (867.01 ± 238.67 € vs. 393.26 ± 217.55 €; p < 0.01) and aids (821.02 ± 415.73 € vs. 513.52 ± 368.76 €; p < 0.01) were significantly above the VG.
doc2	11	The two-year survival after pHF is lower in the SP than in the VG (p < 0.01).
doc2	12	The results show increased morbidity and mortality as well as medical costs after a proximal humeral fracture.
doc2	13	Preventive examinations and treatments are rarer.
doc2	14	In the future, care concepts for patients with proximal humeral fractures should not only be optimised with regard to functional scores and reduced complication rates, but also with regard to quality of life and preservation of general health.
doc50	1	Since the beginning of the coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) pandemic, German emergency departments (ED) have been working in the area of conflict between high case load and demanding hygienic and organizational challenges.
doc50	2	The aim of this study was to gain an overview of the current status of isolation measures, diagnostics and patient allocation of suspected COVID-19 cases.
doc50	3	Supported by the German Society for Interdisciplinary Emergency and Acute Medicine (DGINA) we invited leading ED physicians to answer an anonymous online survey regarding isolation measures, diagnostics and organization in emergency rooms during the COVID-19 pandemic.
doc50	4	A total of 139 responders from all federal states and all levels of care took part in the survey.
doc50	5	Standard operating procedures on COVID-19 exist in almost all participating EDs, although concrete measures to end isolation are often missing.
doc50	6	Most EDs screen patients for the 'classic' COVID-19 symptoms such as fever, respiratory symptoms or contact to positive subjects in a standardized fashion, although the threshold for prophylactic isolation varies greatly.
doc50	7	The individual swab-testing and allocation strategies vary relatively strongly.
doc50	8	Less than half of all EDs have a separate procedure for uninterrogatable patients (e.g. major trauma).
doc50	9	In about 8% of suspected cases, COVID-19-specific thoracic computed tomography is performed in the ED.
doc50	10	The current survey shows that the German EDs are well positioned for the moment, even though the isolation threshold is too high at some locations.
doc50	11	In view of a possible increase in the number of cases during the winter season, a more precise differentiation of the previous recommendations of the Robert Koch Institute, especially for emergency admission patients, would be desirable.
doc50	12	In this context, we propose a universal algorithm for the (de-)isolation of suspect cases in the ED.
